Creating a pg_service.conf (#414)
opengisch/QField-docs: documentation/how-to/pg-service.en.md

QFieldCloud support `pg_service.conf` configurations too. You need to configure your PostgreSQL layers with "Offline editing" cloud action and store your service settings on QFieldCloud Project's Secrets page.

Read more [how to configure PostgreSQL service](../reference/qfieldcloud/secrets.md) in the QFieldCloud documentation.

## Creating a `pg_service.conf` File for PostgreSQL Connection in QGIS and Secrets

Before beginning, ensure that your PostgreSQL database allows connections from QFieldCloud. Refer to [Technical specs](../reference/qfieldcloud/specs.md) for instructions.

### Setup `pg_service.conf` File

> We first need to setup a configuration file. There are a lot of option to organize this, [read more in the PostgreSQL documentation](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/libpq-pgservice.html) or follow the description below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We first need to set up a configuration file. There are many options to organize this, [read more in the PostgreSQL documentation](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/libpq-pgservice.html) or follow the description below.
```

1. **Create a Configuration File**:

   - On Windows:
     Create a file named `pg_service.conf` and store it in a convenient location.

   - On Linux/MacOS/Unix:
     Create a file named `.pg_service.conf` in your home folder (`~`).

2. **Define Connection Parameters**:

   Within the file, specify connection parameters for your PostgreSQL database using the following format:

   ```plaintext
   [SERVICE_NAME]
   host=your_host_or_ip
   port=your_port
   dbname=your_database_name
   user=your_username
   password=your_password
   ```

   Replace placeholders (`your_host_or_ip`, `your_port`, `your_database_name`, `your_username`, `your_password`) with actual connection details and save the file.

!![Parameters](../assets/images/service_config_file_001.png)

### Additional Configuration Steps for Windows

1. **Set Environment Variable**:
   To ensure QGIS recognizes `pg_service.conf`, create an environment variable pointing to its location:

>    - Navigate to "This PC" or "My Computer" > Properties > Advanced system settings > Environment Variables.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - Navigate to "This PC" or "My Computer" > Properties > Advanced System Settings > Environment Variables.
```

QFieldCloud support `pg_service.conf` configurations too. You need to configure your PostgreSQL layers with "Offline editing" cloud action and store your service settings on QFieldCloud Project's Secrets page.

Read more [how to configure PostgreSQL service](../reference/qfieldcloud/secrets.md) in the QFieldCloud documentation.

## Creating a `pg_service.conf` File for PostgreSQL Connection in QGIS and Secrets

Before beginning, ensure that you have allowed connections to QFieldCloud. Refer to [Technical specs](../reference/qfieldcloud/specs.md) for instructions.

> 1. **Create a Text File**: Open your preferred text editor and create a new text file to define PostgreSQL service connection parameters. Save this file in your user's home directory, typically `~/.pg_service.conf`.

Reviewer 2: "home directory" and "~" are unix centric. Can we add instructions for windows users?

Author: Yes, is already added the steps for the Windows users

   ```
   ~/.pg_service.conf
   ```

2. **Add Connection Parameters**: Define the connection parameters for your PostgreSQL database within this file. Use the following structure:

   ```
   [MY_SERVICE_NAME]
   host=your_host_or_ip
   port=your_port
   dbname=your_database_name
   user=your_username
   password=your_password
   ```

   Replace placeholders (`your_host_or_ip`, `your_port`, `your_database_name`, `your_username`, `your_password`) with actual PostgreSQL connection details. For example:

   ```
   [NINJA_DB]
   host=my_db_for_ninja.ch
   port=5432
   dbname=my_database
   user=my_username
   password=my_password
   ```

!![Parameters](../assets/images/service_config_file_001.png)

3. **Save the File**: Save the file after adding connection parameters.

> 4. **Environment Variable**: To ensure QGIS recognizes `pg_service.conf`, set the `PGSERVICEFILE` environment variable to point to its location. Add the following line to your shell's startup file (e.g., `~/.bashrc`, `~/.bash_profile`, `~/.zshrc`, etc.):

Reviewer 2: The environment variable is only required on windows, if we stick to the (unixish) example from above where a `.pg_service.conf` file is stored in the user folder and also what the shell's startup files involves, we don't need it.

Recommendation:
Split the docs where needed, this is partially done already (for windows), but the part here does not clearly indicated for who it is (and I think it should be much shorter).

Example:

### Setup pg_service.conf file

We first need to setup a configuration file. There are a lot of option to organize this, [read more in the PostgreSQL documentation](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/libpq-pgservice.html) or follow the description below.

**On windows**:
Create a file pg_service.conf and store it where you like

**On linux/macOS/*nix**

Create a file in `.pg_service.conf` in your home folder.

### Windows specific additional configuration steps

1. Create the environment variable to point to that (explanation, screenshot)
2. Logout/login

Author: That's greate, please review the new improvements

### Setup `pg_service.conf` File

We first need to setup a configuration file. There are a lot of option to organize this, [read more in the PostgreSQL documentation](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/libpq-pgservice.html) or follow the description below.

1. **Create a Configuration File**:

   - On Windows:
     Create a file named `pg_service.conf` and store it in a convenient location.

   - On Linux/MacOS/Unix:
     Create a file named `.pg_service.conf` in your home folder (`~`).

2. **Define Connection Parameters**:

   Within the file, specify connection parameters for your PostgreSQL database using the following format:

   ```
   [SERVICE_NAME]
   host=your_host_or_ip
   port=your_port
   dbname=your_database_name
   user=your_username
   password=your_password
   ```

   Replace placeholders (`your_host_or_ip`, `your_port`, `your_database_name`, `your_username`, `your_password`) with actual connection details.

3. **Save the File**:
   Save the file after adding the connection parameters.

   ```
   [NINJA_DB]
   host=my_db_for_ninja.ch
   port=5432
   dbname=my_database
   user=my_username
   password=my_password
   ```

> !![Parameters](../assets/images/service_config_file_001.png)

Reviewer 3: I don't think this is really needed to be repeated twice, as well the blurred screenshot. Isn't it better if we remove 3.?

Author: I completely agree!

Author: I take new screeshots that looks a little bit better
